Welcome back lovely gotto people in this video.
We're going to improve the functionality of our story.
We've got it at a pretty good stage right.
We can take input from the player insert those into a story and display the story the player and then
restart the game.
But what we can't do at the moment is have a bunch of stories without some very messy code.
So in this video we're going to start using a template and to do that we're gonna use dictionaries.
Dictionaries are awesome.
Let's have a quick look at what a dictionary is before we go any further.
So I've talked a bit about what a variable is right.
And I'm going to use Ben's image of a variable as a box that can have any kind of value in it.
Some a string some afloat some integer some are billions as a whole bunch different these can be.
And we've looked at an array now an array is actually a special kind.
It's supposed to be in a row a special kind of variable.
And in this case it's helpful to think of it as a shelf it's a shelf on which we can put a whole bunch
of boxes in each box.
Very good box strikes.
Each box has a position and we can find them my positions have I changed this to a nice red color.
This is Position ZERO position one this position 2.
And each one those box can be any type of variable we want
so far so good.
So a dictionary is very much like an array with a couple of key points in a dictionary.
We have to do.
A key is a beautiful key plus a value what I mean by that I mean the everything within dictionary is
going to have some kind of key and all keys must be unique.
A colon and then a value the unique key and once again must be unique can be anything.
It could be a string.
It can be another variable.
It can be all kinds of stuff.
And the value is exactly as it would be in the array.
So whereas we'll be Position ZERO here will do key Mongoose because the key can be anything right we
could call this Mongoose donkey Ben likes donkeys too can and unless these things are actually defined
in the script they'll probably be strings like that.
So I could say to the dictionary go to a donkey which is the key and tell me what's in there.
And here are values note that dictionaries aren't sorted.
So in array I'll say to it go to position three.
The dictionary doesn't keep track of what's in what position.
It only looks at things by key.
Okay.
Now I've told you that's pretty awesome and so far just sounds like extra complexity.
What's a good use case of this.
Well let's imagine that we're making a survival RPG and we have this lovely inventory system right.
It's a nice drag and drop grid based system.
And we've told it that this is Position ZERO position one position two and so on with in our inventory
and inside the inventory we have a pickaxe a hatchet a sword.
I mean these are like classic tropes within survival games right.
And what I can do is I can say okay when the player put something in here adds that value to key zero
add this value to key 1 0 the player has press 0.
Tell me what's in key 0 0 it's the pickaxe.
Give the player the pickaxe.
Right.
This is a really good way of dealing with things like inventory management not just inventory management
all kinds of other things you could do but this is a good use case.
I love dictionaries.
They're incredibly fun.
Okay.
But how's it going to help us in our game.
Well I'm very glad you asked that question and if you didn't I'm gonna pretend you asked it.
It's cool.
So we're going to make a variable this test variables called my dictionary and we're going to define
it by putting curly brackets around it.
And if you're coming from a language a C based language like C++ C sharp and you've been going Dude
where are my curly brackets.
It's ok dude they're right here.
We're going to define a dictionary with curly brackets.
Now if we had an array would have value one value too.
If we have a dictionary we're gonna have key value key value.
Awesome.
But this doesn't explain why this is useful to us.
Well what if we don't call it my dictionary what if we call it current story and what if we don't call
it ki and ki.
What if we call it prompt which is going to have an array of strings and story which can have a string.
Because remember I said this value could be any variable.
And remember I said an array is technically a variable.
We can have a dictionary with an array as one of its values.
And that is going to make this really awesome.
Well let's take a look at why and get a script.
So here we are back in Looney lips and I'm going to go into distraction free mode.
And the first thing to do is make a new variable and I call it current story okay so what's current
story.
Let's define it as a dictionary.
And the first key is going to be prompts.
Why am I putting it like this.
Let's just put it give it key.
Why am I putting words in quotation marks.
Because in a moment I'm going to remove this completely and if I don't have this in quotation marks
it's going to look for a variable called prompts and there isn't one.
So
this is clearly not going to be a zero.
It's going to be this array.
I'm just going to copy this array and I'm going to get rid of one for good by line for.
So right now I have a current story which is a dictionary with a single value in it.
It has a key separated by colon and then the value the value happens to be an array.
One thing I am going to do is I'm going to put this on the next line.
The curly brackets within a dictionary we can do this when the convention in gotto is if we are continuing
a single line of code onto the next line for readability we're going to tap twice by the way.
It's saying here prompts is not declared in the current scope.
Don't worry we're about to fix that.
OK.
I need my next entry in this dictionary so I will put a comma.
Go down the next line and two more tabs.
And this is going to be a story.
No it's going to be story.
There we go.
And I'm going to copy this entire string.
So if I going to cut it and now I can go back up to the top of the line get rid of this variable completely
OK.
So what I've just done is I've just moved both of these variables in to current story.
We no longer need them as variables so they're gone.
And instead I have a string called prompts as a key and a string called story as a case of the beginning
of our template system.
Awesome.
You know what.
Let's make this even more legible and put it like that.
Okay cool.
Now I can take a look at this and see insulate.
These are the prompts.
This is the story.
Well let's fix this.
Thirty nine identify prompts is not declared in the current scope scroll down to thirty nine.
Now luckily three point one is doing this error checking beforehand.
Early versions have gone up didn't you didn't error check until runtime which got a little annoying.
So what's happening here.
Well I've got prompts being called but there is no longer verbal prompts instead.
It's a key within current story so let's call current story dot prompts.
This means look at the key called prompts within current story and specifically look at the key and
count size.
Now I've got line 50 and I click on it current story dot story and the next one is right here.
So may I have current story dot prompts and that should be all of them.
This is good because it means I don't have to mess around with find and replace I don't have to go through
the manually and check all them.
The Eriko comes here.
I can just click on the read words and it'll jump to that line.
Let's check this works.
Welcome to looney lips we're going to tell a story.
Have a wonderful time.
May I have a name please
name.
May I have a noun mouse.
May I have an adverb squeaky.
There's a mouse finger puppet on my desk.
That's why I'm thinking this.
Don't look at me like that.
I teach kids.
May I have an adjective loud.
Once upon a time someone called Name a mouse flavored sandwich which made him feel squeaky inside.
It was allowed day.
Actually that story kind of works isn't it.
I can press the button and it all works.
So we have the same functionality.
OK so the moment we have a single story and we've just moved both variables to a single place and a
nice and neat.
But I want to make this expandable.
I want a variable called template that I want to rename current story to template.
And let's make a new variable called current story so that it doesn't complain.
You're calling current story it doesn't exist.
Okay now template can't be a single dictionary.
Right.
Because we can't just because each key is going to have to be unique.
I can't have multiple keys call prompts.
So somehow I need a way of having multiple dictionaries in here and I know how to do that because I
can make an array of dictionaries.
So now
I can do this.
And between each story I can press comma and add in a new series of keys.
Right so I'm going to make a new dictionary right here and in it I'm gonna put prompts and make a new
story with new prompts.
So this is my challenge to you.
I'd like you to add at least one you story to the Template post a video at least one more story prompts
and story.
And remember you can do this another ordeal to the story first and then the prompts all the way around.
Doesn't matter.
It's not an ordered list.
It's picked by key pause video.
Give it a shot.
Then when you come back I'll show you my solution
and welcome back.
OK.
So I said we can do this in either order.
I will do the story first because easier.
Why can't I write the word story and keep it nice and neat move spaces there.
And I'm going to move right there once was loose there once was a noun called name who searched far
and wide for the mythical adjective noun of name.
I've been listening to mythos and heroes by Stephen Fry So I mean a Greek myth kind of view.
So let's make a myth and this is going to be prompts.
And let's go through this.
There once was a noun so going to copy you and then replace you with percentage s and put an array of
strings a noun called and so sort of fast forward this.
Okay that should do it.
So let's just double check.
I've got everything so I've got a key Cold story that has one two three four strings and I've got prompts
one two three four.
Fantastic.
I've separated the two entries in my fiction with a comma and I've closed off the array.
Awesome.
So now we have two stories.
Well I actually have more than two stories because I've created a bunch of others so I'm going to fast
forward and bring them in.
And here we are we have one two three four five six seven eight different stories that's quite a lot
and it takes up a lot of room so what we do is a little down arrow the arrow.
Now there's little down arrow next to template a click that is going to collapse.
See how we get from one to five.
So we get from line five to 39.
Right.
I can expand that again.
We are going to move all these out of the script in later video right.
This is a lot of data that doesn't really need to be in the script later going to separate them.
But at the what for now.
OK.
So I have a template but I'm still looking for current story.
What we need to do is pick a random story from the template.
So how do we do that.
Well the first thing we need to do is figure out how to set the current story.
If you know let's make a function to do just that.
So let's call this pick current story and I put that right here.
So function pick a current story and I'm going to define what current stories are current story equals.
It's gone recently from template right and template is an array with dictionaries inside it.
So I need to pick one of those dictionaries while I know how to pick a certain attribute from this.
But I don't know which one to pick.
And it turns out I need to use random integer and if I hold control I'm fresh random integer.
We can see the returns a Random 32 integer yada yada yada.
OK so what we're gonna do is when we use random integer modulate by and then the number we want to set
is the maximum.
Note by the way we're going to start at zero.
So if I say random integer modulate 20 it's going to go from zero to 19.
If I want between 1 and 20 I have to modulate by 20 plus 1.
Okay so I've got random integer modulate by what am I modulating by the size of the template set template
dot size.
Now currently there are how many stories one two three four five six seven eight stories and it's going
to count those but subtract one.
Well that's good because I'm gonna be counting by position.
This is not position one that's a position zero so actually random is going to do exactly what I wanted
to do in this case.
Except it's not actually going to pick anything random.
Why not.
Because of the way computers deal with random numbers you see computers are very bad at random.
Humans are very bad a random too.
But computers are very bad at random because they don't know how to do that.
Well computers normally do is look at what's the current time and date and generate something from that.
Now in order to get it to actually randomize or be as close to random as possible we need to use the
randomize function randomize is built into gotto and what this does is pick a random number and you
might be thinking well why do I need to do this.
Isn't this like rolling dice kind of just roll them.
And the answer is No it's not actually like rolling dice is like shuffling cards you see when I say
random integer what I'm doing is I'm saying pick the top card randomize tells it to shuffle.
Every time I wanted to reshuffle I need to redo randomize.
I can also give it to seed and say put the cards in this order but we don't need to do that.
OK.
Before we test this out quick thing pick current story isn't quite right is actually set current story
or pick random story one of the suits call it second story and when I press play I'm going to get an
arrow.
What's Arabi guessing.
There's no such thing called prompts.
I know what I've done.
OK I'm going to have my template.
One of my stories has prompts two of my stories as prompts.
I watch them have a prompt because I got silly.
I was going to call these old prompts one more time to let me lips we're going to tell a story.
Have a wonderful time may I have a thing please.
Cow may I have a name.
Bertie a description word an adjective please.
Cute thing an earring.
There was a calico called Bertie that lived as cute as an earring.
Look at that.
And now for us again we're going to have a person's name.
This could be banned.
Name a place Ben's house.
A plural of a noun.
Donkeys he likes donkeys as nice but donkeys doesn't matter.
An adverb of wondering A why has it tensely.
And now the hippopotamus hippo.
Not spelling hippopotamus did then I hope this letter finds you well.
I've spent the past three weeks in Ben's house reach in the history of donkeys for my new book.
I miss you hesitantly and whenever I see a hippo I think of you.
Look at that.
That's looking amazing.
And just to make that it bigger we have a fully scalable game now this template needs to be neater because
that's 30 odd lines of code that really don't need to be in the script.
We're going to make that work later but we have a pretty close to complete game.
Which brings us to the end of this video.
In this video we've looked at the awesome power of dictionaries.
We've looked at how we can nest arrays and dictionaries into each other and how to generate random integers.
So did you come up with any cool stories.
Would you like to share them.
Please do go onto the to the discord onto the forums or the Q and A on the Facebook group and share
any cool story templates you've made.
Meanwhile excellent work and I'll see you in the next video.